# Security code scanning using Trivy

This composite GitHub Action automates the process of scanning source code for vulnerabilities and then adds a comment to the associated pull request with a detailed list of any vulnerabilities discovered. It integrates with [Trivy](https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy), a vulnerability scanner, to perform the code analysis.

This GitHub Action is designed to enhance the security of your repository by automating vulnerability scanning during the pull request process. It allows developers to be informed about potential security issues as part of their code review process, promoting safer and more secure software development.

## Workflow Steps

**Scan Source Code:**<br>
[Trivy scans](https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy-action) the specified source code, generating a JSON report containing vulnerability information.

**Read [Trivy](https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy) Results:**<br>
The table report generated by [Trivy scan](https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy-action) is read, and the vulnerabilities detected are extracted. The extracted vulnerabilities are stored as an output to be used later.

**Create Comment:**<br>
If vulnerabilities are detected (based on the extracted results), this step constructs a detailed comment. For each vulnerability, the comment includes information such as the Vulnerability ID, Severity, Package Name, Installed Version, Description, and References. The comment is formatted for easy readability.

**Add Comment to Pull Request:**<br>
Using the GitHub REST API provided by the [thollander/actions-comment-pull-request](https://github.com/thollander/actions-comment-pull-request) action, this step adds the constructed comment to the pull request that triggered the workflow run. The comment contains the list of vulnerabilities found during the [Trivy scan](https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy-action).

## Future improvements

1. Comment step could be improved using additional templating and adding additional references to required items.
2. Update action with force fail parameter of runing pipeline ```yml exit-code: 0 ```

## How to use:

### Example 1: Basic setup, only [GitHub Token](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/automatic-token-authentication) required

```yml
- name: Run security scan
  uses: propertylift/github.action.security-scan
  with:
    token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
  ```

### Example 2: Extended configuration

```yml
- name: Run security scan
  uses: propertylift/github.action.security-scan
  with:
    severity: 'MEDIUM,HIGH,CRITICAL'
    token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
  ```

## Inputs:

| Parameter Name | Required | Default                          | Description                                                |
| -------------- | -------- | -------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| severity       | No       | UNKNOWN,LOW,MEDIUM,HIGH,CRITICAL | Severities of vulnerabilities to scanned for and displayed |
| token          | Yes      | -                                | GITHUB_TOKEN                                               |
| resultFile     | No       | trivy-scan-results.output        | File which will contain security scan result               |

